In this course, Course 10,
we're going to be talking
about the exFAT file system.
This course is going to cover
knowledge of critical
data structures
in the FAT file system.
We're going to understand how
the FAT file does file recovery.
We're going to talk about
the exFAT directory tree,
and folder, and file recovery
limitations within
the FAT file system.
In Module 1, we're
going to talk about
file system overview and
history of the exFAT file system.
exFAT was first supported
by Windows CE in 2006.
It has a maximum volume
size of 64 zettabytes.
That is a very large volume.
This file system was
designed for large volumes.
It's file size limitation
is 16 exabytes.
It's designed for large
volumes and large files.
It's used mainly
on external media,
it is cross-platform, it will run
on Windows, Mac, and Linux.
If you have a removable
media that you
intend to use on different
operating systems,
you would probably want to
format that volume exFAT.
Now the volume structure,
we have a volume boot
sector like we have in FAT,
we have a backup boot sector,
and we have one FAT.
We don't have the two FATs,
we only have one FAT in exFAT,
one file allocation table.
Then we have the data area,
which is also referred
to as a cluster heap.
So we do have a system
area and a data area.
The system area has
our boot record,
our backup boot record,
and our file allocation table.
The data area is where we
store our files and folders.
Now, we only have one FAT table.
This version of FAT does use
a full 32 bytes for its entries.
It's going to have a media
descriptor of FF, FF,
FF, F8, and that is
the same as FAT32.
The difference with FAT32
and exFAT is exFAT,
the file allocation table
only tracks fragmented files.
If a file is not fragmented,
it won't have an entry in
the file allocation table.
The file allocation table does
not track cluster allocation.
ExFAT uses a bitmap to track
cluster allocation like NTFS.
There are two system
files we're going to
see in exFAT that we
don't see in FAT32,
and that's the bitmap
and the UpCase table.
The bitmap, like I said,
is used to track
cluster allocation.
It tracks what
clusters are in use,
and what clusters are
available to be written to.
The UpCase table is just a
table of unicode characters.
This is used for searching.
It converts the characters
so you can do a
search of the drive.
The system files will
have an entry in
the root directory,
but that directory entry
does not have a filename.
We'll look at that when we look
at the exFAT root directory.
In our next module,
we're going to take a look at
the exFAT volume boot record.